scientists have probably cracked the
mystery of space signals in the first
days of January a new revolutionary
telescope in Canada detected 13 new
signals coming toward Earth from deep
space
does this mean we're not alone in the
universe let's find out but first of all
take the subscription button and turn on
notifications to keep up with new videos
that appear on the bright side of life
every day the beginning of this year
brought us some thrilling news
astronomers have discovered 13
high-speed radio bursts coming from deep
space but the most shocking aspect of
this finding is that one of these 13
radio bursts is a highly unusual
repeating signal it comes from a source
located approximately 1.5 billion
light-years away
experts keep debating on the origin of
this signal but there already exists
several theories which shed some light
on the mysterious flashes but let's
start from the very beginning namely
from fast radio bursts themselves these
signals are some of the weirdest
phenomena of the universe they are
pulses of radio waves which comes from
far outside the Milky Way which is our
home galaxy each burst is only a
millisecond long for the first time fast
radio bursts were detected in 2007
interestingly astronomers who were
examining the Parkes radio telescope
archive data didn't expect to discover
something so far-reaching they were in
search of new pulsars magnetized neutron
stars but instead they got information
about an entirely new phenomena it was a
fast radio bursts recorded in 2001 since
then astronomers have found information
about 6 more sources of radio signals in
the archived data from the Parkes
telescope in eastern Australia
and one more burst was discovered in the
archive data from the Arecibo telescope
in Puerto Rica and in January 2015
scientists observed a live fast radio
bursts for the first time it happened in
the Parkes Observatory in Australia
astronomers believe that more than a
thousand of such flashes happen every
day but only a few of them get detected
however this situation may change pretty
soon in August 2017 the construction of
the chyme telescope was finished this
name stands for Canadian hydrogen
intensity mapping experiment yeah it's
easier to just say shot this
revolutionary telescope is situated at
the dominion radio Astrophysical
Observatory in British Columbia Canada
the shine telescope doesn't have any
moving parts it was created to map
hydrogen the most abundant chemical
element in the universe this mapping
process can help scientists better
understand the dark energy which is
speeding up the expansion of the
universe the new highly unusual device
consists of four fixed 300 feet long
semi syndra local antennas these
antennas can scan the visible sky 24/7
the telescope has extensive frequency
coverage from 400 to 800 megahertz and a
large field of view more than 200
squared degrees
this makes chime the one-of-a-kind
telescope for detecting fast radio
bursts exactly this unique device has
recently discovered new signals
astronomers hope that the telescope will
be able to record more than a dozen of
these radio bursts a day it might be
possible thanks to the impressive scale
of the apparatus dozen of these radio
bursts who monitor a vast part of the
sky as soon as scientists start to get
more information about these mysterious
signals they will probably manage to
discover their nature so let's get back
to those 13 new fast radio bursts that
the chyme telescope has detected
curiously their radio frequency is the
lowest of all signals that have been
detected so far at the same time these
those were brighter than those
discovered before them it made the
research team suspect that the
low-frequency might depend on the
environment where the source of these
signals is situated and while the most
recent fast radio bursts probably don't
travel from further away than others
they might be changing if they pass
through plasma or hot gas on their way
toward Earth thus these 13 signals might
have appeared in some turbulent regions
of their home galaxies for example
somewhere close to a black hole or near
some high-density supernova remnants but
wait there's another enigma connected
with one of the new signals the
structure of a fast radio bursts which
constantly repeats a shockingly similar
to FRB one two one one zero two
the only other repeating signal
scientists have ever observed on the
other hand the new repeater is a bit
brighter than the previous one it may
have something to do with the distance
it's one and a half billion light-years
closer
unfortunately at the moment the research
team can do nothing but watch the region
of the sky where the signals have come
from with the help of chime and other
radio telescopes they need to figure out
if single and repeating radio bursts are
coming from different objects or not
recert radio telescopes - when the chyme
telescope discovered the new burst it
wasn't running at its full capacity
that's why the team is thrilled to find
out how much more information they can
get now when the telescope is working at
full blast up to the present day
astronomers haven't come close to any
conclusions about what causes fast radio
bursts however there exists several
theories - merging stars one of the
possibilities can be two colliding
neutron stars
dr. Shree harsh Tendulkar an astronomer
from McGill University in Montreal
Canada is sure that this is the most
plausible explanation at the same time
this scenario works only for single
radio signals when the stars crashed
together they get destroyed in the
collision that's why you can't see
repeated radio flashes on the other hand
the majority of fast radio bursts that
have been discovered in the recent years
were only
seem once after that they simply
disappeared but what about the two
repeaters that appear again and again
well these may have a different
explanation a black hole many
astronomers support the theory which is
based on the participation of a black
hole in the appearance of fast radio
bursts some experts believe that fast
radio bursts may occur when a neutron
star falls into a black hole
others are sure that this happens when a
black hole gets hit by dark matter
another version is that when a black
hole collapses it emits fast radio
signals these theories make sense if you
know that the electromagnetic waves
which create radio signals follow a
unique pattern it may mean that they
come from a place with an incredibly
strong magnetic field such an area may
be found right next to massive black
holes for example the ones which are
located in the Centers of galaxies a
spinning neutron star there's also a
group of scientists who think that the
source of fast radio bursts may be a
spinning neutron star Jason hassles
associate professor from the University
of Amsterdam supports this theory he
states that the source of the bursts can
be a rotating neutron star it's home
should be a place with the extreme
magnetic environment for example a black
hole which is sucking in dust and gas
and therefore growing unfortunately
scientists haven't yet figured out which
physics could be producing such active
radio bursts bullets are a blitz R is a
spinning neutron star which can't bear
its own weight anymore and after
collapsing forms a new black hole
theoretically this process could produce
vast radio bursts but on the other hand
such an event means the demise of the
star thus this process can only be the
source of single radio signals alien
civilization the origin of most fast
radio bursts is entirely natural but the
existence of the repeaters makes some
people believe that they are the product
of an alien civilization those who
support this idea
consider the signals to be deep
proof of extraterrestrial activity at
the same time dr. Ingrid stairs an
astrophysicist at the University of
British Columbia in Vancouver Canada
states that it's an unlikely possibility
the thing is that signals are coming
from various directions it means that
their sources are located in different
galaxies doctor stairs is sure that
several alien civilizations from
galaxies situated far away from one
another we didn't have the same type of
signal even if they had they wouldn't
use it in the same way and that's why
she deems this theory improbable which
opinion seems the most plausible to you
write about your ideas in the comments
section below remember to hit the like
button share this video with your
friends and subscribe to the channel to
stay on the bright side of life with us
[Music]